Temasek Polytechnic

School of Informatics & IT

**Database Application Development (CIA1C06)**

**AY 23/24 Oct Semester**

**Project Part 2**

**(Database Design)**

  ---------------------------- ------------------------------------------
                               

                               
  ---------------------------- ------------------------------------------

# Table of Contents {#table-of-contents .TOC-Heading}

**Declaration of Originality** [3](#_Toc148396512)

Guidelines for designing ER-Model
[4](#guidelines-for-designing-er-model)

Part A: The Entity-Relationship Diagram
[6](#part-a-the-entity-relationship-diagram)

Part B: The Entity-Attributes Information [7](#section-1)

Part C: The Report [8](#section-3)

![](media/image1.jpeg){width="2.0833333333333335in"
height="0.5833333333333334in"}

**SCHOOL OF INFORMATICS & IT**

**\[Database Design Document\]**

Student Name (Matric Number) : Shubham Kaushik

Tutorial Group : T14

Jenny LING (TP)

Tutor : **Mr Effendi BABA**

Submission Date : 26/11/23

[]{#_Toc148396512 .anchor}**Declaration of Originality**

I am the originator of this work and I have appropriately acknowledged
all other original sources used as my references for this work.

I understand that Plagiarism is the act of taking and using the whole or
any part of another person's work, including work generated by AI, and
presenting it as my own.

I understand that Plagiarism is an academic offence

and if I am found to have committed or abetted the offence of plagiarism
in relation to this submitted work, disciplinary action will be
enforced.

# Guidelines for designing ER-Model

**[Definition]{.underline}**

[ER-Model]{.underline}

Entity Relationship model constructs entity sets, relationship sets, and
imposes constraints. ER Model is best used for the conceptual design of
a database.

[Entity]{.underline}

- An entity can be a real-world object, either animate or inanimate,
  that can be easily identifiable.

- For instance, within a school database, entities encompass individuals
  like students and teachers, as well as classes and offered courses.

- All these entities possess specific attributes or properties that
  define them.

Attributes

- All attributes have values. For example, a student entity may have
  name, class, and age as attributes.

[Relationship]{.underline}

There are 3 types of relationship

- one-to-one

- one-to-many

- many-to-many

[Design Guidelines]{.underline}

1)  Consider the entities needed to meet the requirements of the
    website.

2)  Start off with one entity that you are sure of. Think about what
    attributes this entity could have. Then, gradually identify other
    entities and consider possible attributes for each.

3)  If you are stuck at Step 1 and unsure of which entity to create,
    consider using normalization. This can help you determine the entity
    by normalizing the attributes to 3NF (Refer to slides in "week 2.1
    Introduction to Database Design and Normalization" for
    normalizations steps).

4)  For each entity, determine the necessary constraints. Start by
    identifying the primary key for each entity. Decide whether the
    primary key should be auto-incremented. Then, determine which
    attributes should be unique and which should be set to \'not null\'.

5)  Once you have identified at least two entities, consider whether
    there is a relationship between them. If so, what type of
    relationship is it? If it\'s a many-to-many relationship, do you
    need to add an extra table to represent it?

6)  After establishing a relationship between two entities, identify
    where should the foreign key be stored?

7)  To test if the design works, add mock data to all the entities you
    have designed. Perform operations like add, update, and delete to
    this data. Ensure each operation is successful.

8)  Refer to slides in "week 2.0 Introduction to Relational Database" or
    "week 1.3 -- Introduction to Data, Database and Data Models" for ER
    model design.

#  

# Part A: The Entity-Relationship Diagram

*(Please refer to example of ER diagram in week 2.0 Introduction to
Relational Database)*

You will design an Entity-Relationship Model for the conceptual design
of your e-commerce website. Create the Entity-Relationship Diagram using
the Workbench tool, as covered in the week 2 lesson. Paste a screenshot
of your Entity-Relationship Diagram in this section.

Please make your screenshot image are **sharp** and **clearly** shown
**all the columns** and **their data type** for each entity.

![A diagram of a software company Description automatically generated
with medium confidence](media/image2.png){width="6.53125in"
height="4.833333333333333in"}

# 

# 

# Part B: The Entity-Attributes Information

In Part A, you designed an Entity-Relationship Diagram. For this
section, provide detailed attribute information for **[all the
entities]{.underline}** present in that diagram.

**For each entity**, obtain the following information:

- Entity Column information

- **All** the **Foreign-Key** information (Some entity will have more
  than 1 foreign key)

*(Please refer to example in week 2.0 Introduction to Relational
Database)*

[Order Entity]{.underline}

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image3.png){width="6.53125in"
height="1.617361111111111in"}

[Foreign key in order table]{.underline}

[(order table links to delivery table)]{.underline}

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image4.png){width="6.53125in"
height="1.9652777777777777in"}

(order table links to credit card table)

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image5.png){width="6.53125in"
height="1.8722222222222222in"}

(order table links to register table)

![](media/image6.png){width="6.53125in" height="1.9819444444444445in"}

(order table links to order status table)

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image7.png){width="6.53125in" height="2.0125in"}

**[order_status entity]{.underline}**

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image8.png){width="6.53125in"
height="0.9902777777777778in"}

**[foreign key in order_status entity]{.underline}**

\[No foreign key\]

**[register entity]{.underline}**

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image9.png){width="6.53125in" height="1.60625in"}

**[Foreign key in register entity]{.underline}**

\[no foreign key\]

**[login entity]{.underline}**

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image10.png){width="6.53125in"
height="1.0868055555555556in"}

**[Foreign key in login entity]{.underline}**

(login table links to register table)

![A black and blue line Description automatically generated with medium
confidence](media/image11.png){width="6.53125in"
height="1.4104166666666667in"}

**[delivery entity]{.underline}**

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image12.png){width="6.53125in"
height="1.1208333333333333in"}

**[Foreign key in delivery table]{.underline}**

\[No foreign key\]

**[credit_card entity]{.underline}**

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image13.png){width="6.53125in"
height="1.1090277777777777in"}

**[Foreign key in credit_card table]{.underline}**

\[No foreign key\]

**[Order_item entity]{.underline}**

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image14.png){width="6.53125in"
height="1.2791666666666666in"}

**[Foreign key in order_item table]{.underline}**

(order_item table links to product_for_sale table)

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image15.png){width="6.53125in"
height="1.8916666666666666in"}

(order_item table links to order table)

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image16.png){width="6.53125in"
height="1.4590277777777778in"}

**[product_for_sale entity]{.underline}**

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image17.png){width="6.53125in"
height="1.6576388888888889in"}

**[Foreign key in product_for_sale table]{.underline}**

(product for sale table links to category table)

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image18.png){width="6.53125in"
height="1.8319444444444444in"}

(product_for_sale table links to product_image table)

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image19.png){width="6.53125in"
height="1.7743055555555556in"}

**[product_image entity]{.underline}**

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image20.png){width="6.53125in"
height="0.9715277777777778in"}

**[Foreign key in product_image table]{.underline}**

\[No foreign key\]

**[category entity]{.underline}**

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image21.png){width="6.53125in"
height="0.9854166666666667in"}

**[Foreign key in category table]{.underline}**

\[No foreign key\]

# 

# Part C: The Report

Write a report of no more than 400 words to address the following 3
issues:

1)How does your design prevent Insertion anomalies

2)How does your design prevent Update anomalies

3)How does your design prevent Delete anomalies

For each of the 3 points above, elaborate with examples. (Refer to
slides in "week 2.1 Introduction to Database Design and Normalization"
for anomalies examples).

**Insertion anomalies:**

An insertion anomaly occurs in a database when, due to its structure,
one must insert placeholder or unrelated data just to satisfy the
requirements for adding a record.

**Example 1:**

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image22.png){width="4.30003937007874in"
height="1.9032961504811898in"}

**Example 2:**

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image23.png){width="2.49915135608049in"
height="2.770594925634296in"}

**Update anomalies:**

An update anomaly occurs when data is **[inconsistently
updated]{.underline}** due to the **[redundant storage]{.underline}** of
the same data in multiple places.

**Example1:**

![A screen shot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/image24.png){width="4.228922790901137in"
height="1.7584547244094488in"}

**Example 2:**

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image25.png){width="4.517263779527559in"
height="1.8118022747156606in"}

**Delete anomalies:**

A delete anomaly occurs when the deletion of a single piece of data
**[causes the loss of other related data.]{.underline}**

**Example 1:**

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/image22.png){width="4.30003937007874in"
height="1.9032961504811898in"}

**Example 2:**

![A screen shot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/image24.png){width="4.228922790901137in"
height="1.7584547244094488in"}

**[Report]{.underline}**

First example of **[insertion anomaly]{.underline}** is product_for_sale
table and category table. Category table is for the category of the
product. If we had category as an attribute inside the product_for_sale
table that would cause to an insertion anomaly, as this new table would
be 1NF. This is because if we wanted to add in a new category but if no
product is being sold that can fall within that category, then one must
insert placeholder or unrelated data just to satisfy the requirements.

Second example of **[insertion anomaly]{.underline}** is order_table and
credit_card \_table. If credit_card_company and the credit_card fee were
within the order table. This would cause an insertion anomaly, and this
new table would be 1NF. This is because if wanted to add in a new
credit_card company, for e.g WorldCard but if no one was using WorldCard
to pay, then one must insert placeholder or unrelated data just to
satisfy the requirements.

The first example of **[update anomaly]{.underline}**. Different credit
card companies have different transaction fees. If we had made credit
card company and the credit card fee an attribute of the order entity it
would have caused an **[update anomaly]{.underline}**. This is because
if a credit card company, e.g MasterCard, decided to increase its credit
card payment fees. We would have to change the MasterCard fee not for
one record only but for all the order records that are using MasterCard
as payment option.

The second example of **[update anomaly]{.underline}** are the order
table and the delivery table. If delivery_company and delivery_fee were
attributes within the order table, this would have caused update
anomaly. This is because if the deliver company decided to increase its
delivery fee. We would have to change all the records of that particular
delivery company's fees.

First example of **[delete anomaly]{.underline}** is product_for_sale
table and category table. For example, if the category was an attribute
inside the product_for_sale table. And, in the all the products being
sold there are only 2 products, Product A & B, which fall under the
category wine. If the Product A & B were deleted. In that case, we would
lose category (wine) information. However, with category being a
separate entity, this insertion anomaly is avoided.

Second example of **[delete anomaly]{.underline}** is order table and
credit_card table. For example, if the credit card company and the
transaction fee were an attribute of the order table. And if, no one was
using the credit card company to pay then we would lose the credit_card
company information as it would not exist in the column, credit_card
company. However, with credit_card being a separate entity this is
avoided.

> -End of Report-
